Back to our recipes page.
I said I wanted to display a list of recipes here,
so let's include an ion-list
and now the nice thing is here in Visual Studio Code with the Angular essentials package installed,
I now get auto-completion here in my templates,
thanks to this Ionic Angular wrapper actually which unlocks all the Ionic components as Angular components
and I would get auto-completion support for Angular components here,
hence I get it for these Ionic components too because they're all wrapped into Angular components so
to say. So I can add my ion-list here
and on that ion-list or in that ion-list, I want to render a couple of items, a couple of recipes.
Now of course, we don't have any recipes yet and I will not create an overly complex app at this point,
we'll do that later with the course project.
So for now, I will simply create a new file here,
my recipe.model.ts to define how a recipe should look like and I'll use an interface here, name
it recipe and I want my recipes to let's say have an ID which is of type string, a title which is of
type string, an ImageUrl which is of type string and then some ingredients which is an array of
strings, something like bananas, apples,
so a really simple recipe definition.
And in case this is something you've never seen, again please go through my Angular Complete Guide first,
this is a Typescript feature, we're defining an interface here, we can basically use this as our own type
and we can ensure that we therefore always work with the same data, with data with the same structure
in our application.
So with the recipe interface created here, in the recipes.page.ts file, I will now add a recipes
property which is of type recipe array and the recipe is of course my own model and therefore this
type has to be imported from the recipe model file and this should not be an empty array but instead,
I'll start with an array that already has a couple of recipes and each recipe should have an ID, like
r1, whatever you like,
it should have a title like schnitzel, if you took my Angular Complete Guide, you know what I'm talking
about.
It should have an ImageUrl and for that I'll quickly pick a lovely schnitzel image, here I copied
in a URL, you can simply find an image where on Google Image Search,
later in the course I'll show you how to use the device camera but for now, let's go with this hardcoded
URL here and I also need my ingredients and here, we certainly need French fries and we need Pork,
Meat and maybe we also need some Salad. Now I'll quickly add another recipe here and of course you can
add anything you want, I'll go with some nice spaghetti here and quickly search an image for that
as well,
brought in a URL and ingredient-wise, we need spaghetti and we need meat and probably also some tomatoes.
Now here I get some linting error regarding my URL being too long,
I'll just ignore that here.
So with the recipes added here, I want to output them in my ion-list and this can be done by adding
an ion-item here
and since I want to repeat this for every element in my ingredient list, I'll dump an ngFor statement
on it,
so using the default ngFor directive we can use in any Angular project and then I'll go through all
my recipes I have here.
So with let recipe of recipes, I loop through all my recipes and in the ion-item here,
I of course want to display the image, let's say on the left and on the right, I then want to have my
text. For that, we can use a component I haven't shown you before
and of course as always, you'll find that in the official docs
and that would be the ion-avatar.
This is a component which can wrap the ion-img and the ion-img in the end is like the normal image,
just with some optimizations,
one of the optimizations being that it's only loading the image when it's visible,
so when the user can actually see it.
So if it scroll down outside of the current viewport of the user,
this will not be loaded. And I'll bind that with property binding square brackets to my recipe ImageUrl
here. Now
this avatar here will get a slot start in the ion-items, so that it's all the way on the left and next to
the avatar,
I'll add an ion-label here as a wrapper around my text simply and there, we can use string interpolation
to output the recipe
title. With that let's save it and let's see what we get when this application runs, here
this looks very nice.
We got this list of elements
and here we already see how Ionic components, these ones here wrapped into Angular components,
thanks to @ionic/angular and Angular works together.